should you try and pick individual
stocks or just buy an ETF that's what
we'll discuss here today this goes for
your Investment Portfolio but it might
be a retirement account as well my name
is David quinteri and I have been
involved in the financial system for
well over a decade I've written two
books on the subject and I have been
knee-deep in the trenches each and every
day taking with all real complicated and
making it so simple to understand for
anybody so what we want to look at here
is this question of what should I do
with my money and it is very important
that we understand the pros and cons and
that we look at this on a deeper level
that's what we're here to do today so
let's begin I want to make it clear
right up front that we are specifically
comparing paper assets So within that
world of paper assets this information
will apply most people let's say it
right now most people cannot predict the
market accurately you can try but you
will likely fail and I want to make this
clear as well over decades you can't
just rely on being a accurate investor
you know this month this year or even
through this one cycle it has to be over
a series of decades or those losses are
going to be magnified maybe you got
lucky maybe you did well maybe you
invested in tech stocks maybe you bought
that Tesla and you see that with a lot
of YouTubers who became very popular
because of one particular trade maybe it
was Tesla and now suddenly they're a
genius oh yeah they got the nice house
the nice car all because of that one bet
and then they did maybe a few others on
top of that some you win some you lose
but without that one outlier they
wouldn't have done real well now is that
a genius is that somebody who knows a
lot of stuff or is that somebody who
took a risk and really did well now
that's great if they can do that but
what we want is more of a guarantee for
the average person we've just got to
realize how much time are we going to
invest into you know learning about
these things keeping up to date looking
at the financials of companies and
trying to just you know really decode
what's happening in the global economy
at any given moment all those things are
going to affect that stock so you got to
be aware of this all right and so I will
say that for most people for most people
it is better to hold an ETF
broad-based overall market and that's a
simple matter of fact
it is a simple matter of fact you're
going to get lower returns than some
stocks some stocks depends there's less
downside potential
so this is what we must realize here
you're probably not going to be able to
pick all the right stocks at all time so
you're going to lose some and that means
your portfolio is going to drop how much
did you apply to that out of the total
Pi is that five percent is a ten percent
is it twenty whatever the case may be a
lot of these companies you think it's
going to go well and it just keeps going
down some people they you know double
down oh I know why not double down all
right no a lot of times that just makes
things worse we gotta know when to you
know hold them we got to know what to
fold them you got to know what to sell
but people don't
so if we hold a broad-based ETF over a
longer period of time that's going to be
able to benefit a vast majority of
people it's like holding a mutual fund
but with a lot of these ETFs the the
fees are much much lower you've got to
think about about the different sectors
so for instance you know you could be
going through a recession
and that recession for whatever reason
makes people put more money into value
stocks what they think are going to be
there for a while maybe that's like
Johnson and Johnson Coca-Cola all these
different companies that they sell
household products that people will buy
whether it's a recession or not
and so that's an important thing that's
a very important distinction
depends on the circumstances right so as
you look at it breaking it down by
sector you can say that okay so well
some sectors will do better than others
so in that period of time if I'm holding
the broad index it's probably not going
to go down as much as one if I just pick
one sector or one stock within that one
sector where the drop could be magnified
tremendously seventy percent eighty
percent ninety percent this happens okay
right in the cycle big name companies
were losing that much money and those
were the ones The Darlings as they call
them that were doing so well and then uh
oh we got a problem here so understand
the different sectors and why for most
people if I just go broad-based ETF
that's going to help them a lot that's
going to make it a lot more simple you
don't have to get a mutual fund because
generally if you buy a broad-based ETF
you're going to outperform the mutual
month so don't pay that two percent
three percent four percent and who knows
what they're charging now if you have
some specialist if you're working with
some sort of special you know he's got
some gift
different story they've got to have that
track record and they gotta have that
track record for you know over 20 years
if they don't have it over 20 years I
wouldn't go with it broad-based ETFs
probably going to do better and even if
it doesn't do better you know that
you're holding on to something
that is definitely going to weather the
storm better than the average stock or
the average investor chances are that's
that's the way it goes now holding
stocks should not be viewed as a money
maker it's a wealth preserver
okay that that like a lot of people
don't realize that because they watch
these YouTube videos they get they get
confused you're putting money into
something and it's gonna earn you five
percent seven percent ten percent
whatever the case is okay
you want to do this you want to invest
in something that of course appreciates
over time and hopefully
you know you you can do well over a
period make more than you would on your
money okay so you you're earning let's
just say a hundred grand a year you take
I'm gonna invest ten thousand dollars a
year you take that ten thousand okay it
becomes eleven thousand it becomes
swelling you just keep recycling that
over and over again and you know by the
time you're ready to retire you have a
nest egg
okay that's okay but you want to not
live a life that you gotta you know
basically just conserve so much and then
you become 65 maybe you don't even get
to 65 God forbid right you want to be
able to accumulate that wealth faster
and that's why I say you got to make
money in business business allows you to
do that
where you can accumulate cash much
faster and then you park it in what I
call or preserve capital in traditional
assets whether you like stocks whether
you like bonds real estate precious
metals whatever it is that's what you've
got to do you park the cash in those
traditional Investments
but I have concerns about this
ETFs
heavily concentrating stocks into the
biggest names
the biggest stocks as you see right now
there's more passive investing than
active investing a lot of people are
putting that cash into the ETFs and for
good reason okay because they're going
to outperform the average mutual fund
they're going to outperform your average
financial advisor okay and why because
they only care about their fees so it's
obvious but at the same time you look at
this and you see the concentration so
what happens is when they're buying if
they're creating an index on their own
they're going to be buying more Apple
than they are of anything else so
they're making apple bigger than what it
might really should be and they've
always got to do this right they've
always a whole bunch of people sell then
that has a cascading effect just like if
everyone exits that ETF it's gonna
unwind very badly it's going to be very
dangerous we've never seen anything like
that but that is a huge concern
if people start to go out of the you
know out of the ETF oh no we don't
suddenly we don't trust Vanguard for
whatever reason maybe there was like a
scandal inside who knows oh they don't
actually do it in some way there's
something with the SEC like who knows
and a whole bunch of people rush for the
exits this is going to be like very
dangerous and that's why we shouldn't
put everything all into one not one
company not one particular ETF but
certainly look around because I think
that is another one of the concerns that
isn't talked about I've asked at least
two people that I've interviewed about
this and
I don't know if they um really grasp
what I was talking about
um but I think that's a big concern uh
that's a lot of money so you know that
there's a lot of liquidity there but if
there is a problem that comes up I think
it could be very devastating for that
particular ETF for the investors
involved and also just quite frankly for
the entire Market because it's so
heavily concentrated so this is my
explanation of what I think people
should do the average person it's not to
go out there to your advisors and make
you know give them that you know five
percent or whatever it is and by the way
they might tell you it's two percent
there's the hidden fees they all all
ETFs have hidden fees too by the way
don't believe the nonsense but they're
generally much lower fees than you would
like a mutual fund or financial advice
so this is the point I'm trying to make
here and you go in and you do what you
have to do but make your don't try to
make your money it's like I really I
talked to one guy
poor guy and you know he he was in a
financial predicament and he said to me
I just really really need this to work
out and that I was I I kind of stopped
myself I said yeah but okay okay be
careful now
do not go with that mentality because
you could really burn yourself okay
and I don't think he you know I think he
was desperate and so that's not the case
you don't don't just go all in on
something
and hope okay I hope I don't
ruin my life right now I mean that's not
a that's not a good thing you gotta get
out there you gotta knock on doors you
gotta phone calls you gotta do emails
you've got to make things happen for
yourself you can't just say I'm gonna
bet on this stock because you're putting
your money your all your savings your
earnings whatever it is into somebody
else into another company into you know
somebody to say hey I love this stock so
that it promotes it and then the cash
goes that way and then oh I'm successful
it's a cryptocurrency who's gonna pump
it before they dump it and I can
hopefully ride that train
I don't want any part of that I put the
hard work in myself I make those things
happen I'm willing to do what it takes
are you you let me know ETFs individual
stocks what do you think about this put
your comments down below let me know
what you think of the anecdotes that I'm
talking about today the people who are
just taking all that risk is that you do
you know somebody like that I want to
know your thoughts put it in the
comments below hit that thumbs up and of
course as always I'll see you tomorrow
take care